lesson 4
  internal factors versus external factors
  permission to be human
  human nature is constrained
  we need a space of unconditional acceptance 

  A,B,C
   Affect - emotion       情感, 情绪
   Behavior - Action      行为，行动
   Cognition - thoughts   认识，思想


  Psychological immune system will become stronger
  God, grant me the serenity to accept the thing I can not change; the courage to change the things I can change;
  and the wisdom to know the difference.

lesson 5
  Be the change you want to see in the world

  Belief as self-fulfilling prophecies
  Power of mind.
  How to make a dream into reality

  See the potential the is there, if only we see it, appreciate it, wather it, and it appreciate, it grows.

  the power of the situation
  create positive situation, now do we create a positive situation ? 
  how can we create consciously and subconsciously a positive environment ?

lesson 6
  Have great hopes and dare to go allout for them.
  要有美好的希望，并全力以赴去追求.

  Have great dream and dare to live them.
  要有远大的梦想，并全力以赴去实现.

  Have tremendous expectations and believe in then.
  要有宏伟的期望，并深信不疑

  How inspiring !

  Believe, and you will achive
  learn to fail, or fail to learn
  the secret to success: optimism, passion and hard work.

lesson 7
  The are no short cuts, There are no easy steps to welling, to success, to high level of beliefs in ourselves.
  it takes work, it takes effort, whether it's work visualize, whether it's hard word and coping

  It's up to us to decide where we focus.

lesson 8
  appreciate
  it we learn gratitude as a way of life, if we cultivate the habit of gratitude.

lesson 9
  so many wonderful thing in the world.

  The belief that we can rely on shortcuts to gratifications and bypass the exercise of personal strengths
and virtues is folly. it leads to legions of humenity who are depresssed in the middle of great wealth and 
are striving to death spiritually
相信有捷径通向满足，绕过个人力量和美德的训练是愚蠢的。它导致很多人在坐拥巨大财富的同时感到抑郁，精神饥渴而死.

There is no quick fix, it take time, it take time to change

lesson 10
  peak experiences
  sometimes you joy is the source of your smile, but sometimes yours smile can be the source of your joy
  the sky is the limit

lesson 11
  To change the course of your life, choose one of two methods. 
  One. You can direct your energy and attention toward trying to fix your mind, find your focus, affirm your power,
  free your emotions and visualize positive outcomes so that you can finally develop the confidence to display the courage to discover the 
  determination to make the commitment to feel sufficiently motivated to do what it is you need to do.
  Two. you can just do it.
  你可以引导你的能量及注意力 用其整理思想 集中精神 巩固力量 释放感情以及想象乐观结果，从而使你最终获得自信 鼓起勇气 下定决心做出承诺 获得
  充分的激励去做你要做的事。

lesson 12
  Goals
  Understanding the proper role of goals. Understanding it not a attainment a goal that leads to happiness, but the having a goal that leads to happiness.
  The key is to learn, to enjoy the process. And one of the roles of the goals is to liberate us so that we can enjoy the process.

  What do I want to rather than feel that I have to do? 
  Sometimes the answers are not easy answers, Sometimes the answers are not answers the I want to hear.

  Life is short. Life is too short to do what I have to do; It's barely long enough to do what I want to do.
  人生短得完成不了我必须做的事；人生的长度仅够我完成我想做的事。


lesson 13
  34:23 What I can do is use the love of learning do deal with my phobia, my anxiety, my fear of putting myself on the line.
  69:00 The stress actually cultivated resilience, strength and helped us be happier in the long run.
      
lesson 14
  53:00 Learn to fail or fail to learn - there is no other ways

lesson 15
  40:37 Now it may seem perfect when we first meet. And during the honeymoon plase, it is perfect.
  我们第一次见面的时候可能感觉是完美的，在度蜜月的时候，也是完美的.
  But beyong that, suddenly, we begin to identify flaws, Hey, that's not the person I thought I got together with initially.
  但是突然，我们开始发现对方的缺点了，那不是一开始我以为可以一直在一起的那个人.
  And if I expect perfectionism from the other, I will inevitably be disappointed.
  当然 如果我从对方身上期待的是完美，我肯定会失望的.

  46:21
  one of the ways of having more luck in our lives is to try new things, little things.
